# Create an application file for the given list of models

This function provides a flexible way to create an application file
(.nax) which can be deployed into ProxiMate sensors.

## Usage

``` r
proximate_write_nax(object, path, metadata, tsv_name, empty_tsv_name, 
                    spc = "spc", external_properties = NULL, report = TRUE, 
                    verbose = TRUE, internal_prj_path = NULL)
```

## Arguments

- object:

  a list of objects of class `spectral_model`, as generated by
  [`calibrate`](https://buchi-labortechnik-ag.github.io/proximetricsR/reference/calibrate.md).
  Note that at least one of these models must contain the relevant input
  data (i.e. run with `return_inputs = TRUE` in
  [`calibrate`](https://buchi-labortechnik-ag.github.io/proximetricsR/reference/calibrate.md)
  method).

- path:

  a character for the directory in which the file should be produced.

- metadata:

  an object of class `application_metadata`, as generated by
  [`add_application_metadata`](https://buchi-labortechnik-ag.github.io/proximetricsR/reference/add_application_metadata.md).
  If not provided (and `object` does not contain the metadata either),
  default values are used with a warning.

- tsv_name:

  an optional character. If not supplied, this parameter is set to the
  name of the application plus the current date. See details.

- empty_tsv_name:

  an optional character. For ProxiMate applications, this argument
  should be different to `tsv_name` or it cannot be imported into the
  device. If missing, is set to the name of the application. See
  details.

- spc:

  a character to indicate the column name of the spectra used in the
  data provided to the `object` list of models. This parameter is passed
  to the
  [`proximate_write_data`](https://buchi-labortechnik-ag.github.io/proximetricsR/reference/proximate_write_data.md)
  method. Defaults to `"spc"`.

- external_properties:

  a list for additional files to be included in the application file.
  Defaults to `NULL`. See details for how these files may be added.

- report:

  a logical. Should reports of the models be generated and added to the
  file? Defaults to `TRUE`.

- verbose:

  a logical indicating whether progress bars during the creation of the
  file should be printed. Defaults to `TRUE`.

- internal_prj_path:

  a string. Only used for changing the path printed on the first line of
  each project file. For almost all cases, this argument can be ignored.
  The only case where you should adjust this parameter is when you are
  creating the application (.nax) file in a certain folder, but actually
  want to move it to another one (e.g. on a different platform). If
  `NULL` (default), the path is set equal to `path`, with
  `"Calibrations/"` added at the end.

## Value

Invisibly returns `NULL`. Called for its side effect of writing a `.nax`
application file to `path`.

## Details

This function is capable of generating an application (.nax) file, which
contains compressed data files for the application. All files inside
this .nax file are organized in a fixed way, such that they are
importable into a ProxiMate device. For that, all models to be imported
should be in a list, and each individual model should be generated using
the
[`calibrate`](https://buchi-labortechnik-ag.github.io/proximetricsR/reference/calibrate.md)
function, preferably with the input data saved in it. This can easily be
done by calling the method with `return_inputs = TRUE`. Note that at
least one model in `object` must contain input data, otherwise an error
will occur.

Furthermore, note that the `data` argument in
[`calibrate`](https://buchi-labortechnik-ag.github.io/proximetricsR/reference/calibrate.md)
for all models in one single application must be from one single data
set. In particular, one single `data.frame` must suffice to describe the
inputs of all models in `object`. The data that is actually used to
train these models can still be different, e.g. by specifying the rows
that you want to exclude from a certain model (see `skip` argument of
[`calibrate`](https://buchi-labortechnik-ag.github.io/proximetricsR/reference/calibrate.md)).
An error will be thrown if this is not the case.

The directory `path` is created automatically (if it does not exist).
Inside, the application file is generated, which contains the following
compressed files: a file for the metadata (.nad), project (.prj) and
calibration (.cal) files for all the provided models in `object`,
possibly report (.rtf) files (as indicated by the `report` argument), a
tab-separated value (.tsv) file of the spectral data, and an empty
tab-separated value (.tsv) file.

The metadata file (.nad) is required for a successful import of the
application into a ProxiMate device. This requires metadata in every
model, which should be added using
[`add_model_metadata`](https://buchi-labortechnik-ag.github.io/proximetricsR/reference/add_model_metadata.md)
prior to the call of this function. Otherwise, default values for the
model metadata will be used with a warning. Furthermore, application
specific metadata is required, which can be either specified by
providing the argument `metadata`, or included in the list of models
`object` (see
[`add_application_metadata`](https://buchi-labortechnik-ag.github.io/proximetricsR/reference/add_application_metadata.md)),
where the former option will take precedence. If neither option is
available, default values of `add_application_metadata` are used with a
warning.

Furthermore, this function provides a way of adding separately generated
project and calibration files through the parameter
`external_properties`. Note that these files have to be either in the
directory of the provided `path` or in a sub-directory "Calibrations"
thereof. External properties must be provided as a list containing model
metadata (using the
[`add_model_metadata`](https://buchi-labortechnik-ag.github.io/proximetricsR/reference/add_model_metadata.md)
method) in order to be added properly to the application file.

These external files must also be named according to the naming
convention of the rest of the models used. In particular, the function
searches the provided `path` and the sub-directory "Calibrations" for
files named with the following format: `app_name.property_name.cal`,
`app_name.property_name.prj` and (if report is `TRUE`)
`app_name.property_name.rtf`, where the `app_name` is taken from the
application metadata, and the `property_name` from model metadata passed
to `external_properties`. If the files cannot be found, a warning will
be displayed.

An example for adding an external property is given in the example
section below.

Note that if an application file for the given application already
exists, the files inside the compressed application file are updated,
but already present files are not deleted.

## Author

Claudio Orellano, Leonardo Ramirez-Lopez

## Examples

``` r
# \donttest{
data("NIRcannabis")
control <- calibration_control(validation_type = "kfold", number = 3, folds = "sequential")
# Models for application files must have model metadata!
model_metadata <- add_model_metadata(unit = "%")
modell <- calibrate(CBDA ~ spc,
  data = NIRcannabis, preprocess = preprocess_recipe(),
  method = fit_plsr(15), control = control,
  metadata = model_metadata, verbose = FALSE
)

app_metadata <- add_application_metadata(name = "app")
proximate_write_nax(
  object = list(modell),
  path = tempdir(),
  metadata = app_metadata,
  tsv_name = "some_tsv",
  empty_tsv_name = "another_tsv",
  report = TRUE,
  verbose = FALSE
)

# Another model
modelr <- calibrate(THCA ~ spc,
  data = NIRcannabis, preprocess = preprocess_recipe(),
  method = fit_plsr(15), control = control,
  metadata = model_metadata, verbose = FALSE
)

# Generate some files to be added separately
proximate_write_model(
  object = list(modelr),
  path = tempdir(),
  tsv_paths = tempdir(),
  application_name = "app",
  cal = TRUE, prj = TRUE, rtf = TRUE,
  verbose = FALSE
)

# Now add them using external properties. Requires a name for the property!
proximate_write_nax(
  object = list(modell),
  path = tempdir(),
  metadata = app_metadata,
  tsv_name = "some_tsv",
  empty_tsv_name = "another_tsv",
  external_properties = list(add_model_metadata(unit = "%", name = "THCA")),
  report = TRUE,
  verbose = FALSE
)
# }
```
