# An introduction to the proximetricsR package

## 1 Overview

`proximetricsR` is an `R` package for building and updating
near-infrared (NIR) applications for the
[ProxiMate](https://www.buchi.com/en/products/instruments/proximate) and
[ProxiScout](https://www.buchi.com/de/produkte/instrumente/proxiscout)
series of NIR sensors manufactured by BUCHI Labortechnik AG.

## 2 Background: NIR spectroscopy and applications

Near-infrared (NIR) spectroscopy is a well-established technology in
food, feed, and environmental research and industry. NIR instruments
typically measure either the light reflected by a matrix or the light
transmitted through it. These measurements are used to infer how much
light is absorbed by the matrix at different NIR wavelengths. Absorbance
is largely determined by the chemical and physical composition of the
matrix and by the concentration of its components.

Empirical models can therefore be built to describe the relationship
between NIR spectra and properties of interest. For example, the protein
content of a wheat sample can be predicted by applying a pre-calibrated
NIR model to the spectrum measured from that sample. Quantitative NIR
models are usually matrix- and property-specific. These models can be
viewed as functions that translate spectral data into meaningful
information:

``` math
\hat{y} = f(x; \theta)
```

where () is the predicted response, (x) is the spectral data, and ()
represents the parameters of the function.

In this document, the term **NIR application** refers to a set of
predictive functions or models used to predict one or more properties of
a given matrix. The NIR application, (A), for a matrix with (n) response
variables or properties can be described as:

``` math
A = {f_1, \ldots, f_n}
```

## 3 Application workflows for ProxiMate and ProxiScout

ProxiMate and ProxiScout applications consist of predictive models and
the metadata required for deployment on the corresponding device.

ProxiMate applications are conventionally developed with **NIRWise
PLUS**, the compiled-executable software offered by BUCHI. ProxiScout
applications are conventionally developed using the **Modeller**
environment together with an additional third-party proprietary software
component requiring paid licenses.

## 4 Scope of `proximetricsR`

The aim of `proximetricsR` is to provide a transparent and flexible
`R`-based workflow for calibrating predictive NIR models and generating
application files for ProxiMate and ProxiScout devices. Users with a
basic understanding of `R` can use the package to programmatically build
and/or update NIR applications while benefiting from the broader `R`
ecosystem and open-source workflows.

The files generated by `proximetricsR` are designed to follow the
expected application structure for both ProxiMate and ProxiScout
devices. The package does not introduce changes or improvements to these
output file structures.
